So we learned about which languages we use and why we use them, HTML, CSS and Typescript,
now the problem we also have is we're using data. We're using data to render shapes, to render a chart
probably
and we learned that we can use svg, scalable vector graphics to create these rectangles, circles or whatever we're
using very simple.
Now that is true it is simple but managing these charts can get cumbersome because keep in mind, if the
user resizes the chart, you'll have to adjust it, so that if you're creating a bar chart, that your
bars get a bit broader,
if you're having circles, that they increase in size, if the user shrinks it, you'll have to shrink all
your shapes, if new data gets added, you will have to add a new shape, a new bar in the bar chart for example
and you will have to manage all of that.
You will have to find out how many bars do I have, do I need to add a new one,
how do I resize everything so that the dimensions stay the same
and that is no fun.
Therefore what you typically use is a third party Javascript package.
Since we do use Javascript, we can add any Javascript package we want and one that is particularly
useful is d3, for data driven documents.
D3 is a package which allows you to easily manipulate the DOM, the HTML code at runtime and add
new shapes, remove them, rescale them
but without doing the nitty-gritty work. Instead you simply bind some data to your shape, so you can basically
define create rectangles for this array of data, whenever you add a new item to this array of data,
it automatically creates a new rectangle.
You can set up hey please scale this like that and when you resize the window or the chart, it will automatically
re-execute the scaling command and thus keep the dimensions. So that's the advantage of d3, makes the creation
of HTML elements like svg but not limited to this
super easy.
It makes styling very easy because probably, you want to assign some styles to your elements and it allows
you to bind your HTML content to your data so that all the updating is done automatically for you and
we will have a basic look at it whilst we go through the example code in the section so that you understand
what is done by d3 and how you use it to create a chart.
Now with that, I'd say that's enough of the talking,
let's get started setting up our development environment and then building our own chart.